modules/authentication/proc-enabling-authentication-with-microsoft-azure.adoc, before:

[id="enabling-authentication-with-microsoft-azure"]
= Enabling authentication with Microsoft Azure

{product} includes a Microsoft Azure authentication provider that can authenticate users by using OAuth.

.Prerequisites
. You have the permission to register an application in Microsoft Azure.
. You link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/{product-version}/html-single/administration_guide_for_red_hat_developer_hub/index#assembly-add-custom-app-file-openshift_admin-rhdh[added a custom {product-short} application configuration].

.Procedure
. To allow {product-short} to authenticate with Microsoft Azure, link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/scenario-web-app-sign-user-app-registration?tabs=aspnetcore#register-an-app-by-using-the-azure-portal[create an OAuth application in Microsoft Azure].

.. In the Azure portal go to link:https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_AAD_RegisteredApps/ApplicationsListBlade[*App registrations*], create a **New registration** with the configuration:
+
**Name**:: The application name in Azure, such as __<My {product-short}>__.

.. On the *Home > App registrations > __<My {product-short}>__ > Manage > Authentication* page, *Add a platform*, with the following configuration:

*Redirect URI*:: Enter the backend authentication URI set in {product-short}: `pass:c,a,q[{my-product-url}/api/auth/microsoft/handler/frame]`
*Front-channel logout URL*:: Leave blank.
*Implicit grant and hybrid flows*:: Leave all checkboxes cleared.

.. On the *Home > App registrations > __<My {product-short}>__ > Manage > API permissions* page, *Add a Permission*, then add the following *Delegated permission* for the *Microsoft Graph API*:
+
* `email`
* `offline_access`
* `openid`
* `profile`
* `User.Read`
* Optional custom scopes for the Microsoft Graph API that you define both in this section and in the {product-short} configuration (`app-config-rhdh.yaml`).
+
[NOTE]
====
Your company might require you to grant admin consent for these permissions.
Even if your company does not require admin consent, you might do so as it means users do not need to individually consent the first time they access backstage.
To grant administrator consent, a directory administrator must go to the link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/user-admin-consent-overview[admin consent] page and click *Grant admin consent for COMPANY NAME*.
====


.. On the *Home > App registrations > __<My {product-short}>__ > Manage > Certificates & Secrets* page, in the *Client secrets* tab, create a *New client secret*.

.. Save for the next step:
- **Directory (tenant) ID**
- **Application (client) ID**
- **Application (client) secret**

. To add your Microsoft Azure credentials to {product-short}, add the following key/value pairs to your {product-short} secrets, such as `secrets-rhdh`:
+
`AUTH_AZURE_TENANT_ID`:: Enter your saved *Directory (tenant) ID*.
`AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_ID`:: Enter your saved *Application (client) ID*.
`AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET`:: Enter your saved *Application (client) secret*.

. Set up the Microsoft Azure authentication provider in your {product-short} custom configuration, such as `app-config-rhdh`:
+
--
.`app-config-rhdh.yaml` fragment
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----
auth:
  environment: production
  providers:
    microsoft:
      production:
        clientId: ${AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_ID}
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET}
        tenantId: ${AUTH_AZURE_TENANT_ID}
signInPage: microsoft
----

`environment: production`::
Mark the environment as production to hide the **Guest** login in the {product-short} home page.

`clientId`, `clientSecret` and `tenantId`::
Use the {product-short} application information that you have created in Microsoft Azure and configured in OpenShift as secrets.

`signInPage: microsoft`::
Enable the Microsoft Azure provider as default sign-in provider.

Optional: Consider adding following optional fields:

`dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog: true`::
+
To enable authentication without requiring to provision users in the {product-short} software catalog.
+
WARNING: Use `dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog` to explore {product-short} features, but do not use it in production.
+
.`app-config-rhdh.yaml` fragment with optional field to allow authenticating users absent from the software catalog
[source,yaml]
----
auth:
  environment: production
  providers:
    microsoft:
      production:
        clientId: ${AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_ID}
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET}
        tenantId: ${AUTH_AZURE_TENANT_ID}
signInPage: microsoft
dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog: true
----

`domainHint`::
Optional for single-tenant applications.
You can reduce login friction for users with accounts in multiple tenants by automatically filtering out accounts from other tenants.
If you want to use this parameter for a single-tenant application, uncomment and enter the tenant ID.
If your application registration is multi-tenant, leave this parameter blank.
For more information, see link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/home-realm-discovery-policy[Home Realm Discovery].
+
.`app-config-rhdh.yaml` fragment with optional `domainHint` field
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----
auth:
  environment: production
  providers:
    microsoft:
      production:
        domainHint: ${AUTH_AZURE_TENANT_ID}
----

`additionalScopes`::
Optional for additional scopes.
To add scopes for the application registration, uncomment and enter the list of scopes that you want to add.
The default and mandatory value lists: `'openid', 'offline_access', 'profile', 'email', 'User.Read'`.
+
.`app-config-rhdh.yaml` fragment with optional `additionalScopes` field
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----
auth:
  environment: production
  providers:
    microsoft:
      production:
        additionalScopes:
           - Mail.Send
----
--

[NOTE]
====
This step is optional for environments with outgoing access restrictions, such as firewall rules.
 If your environment has such restrictions, ensure that your {product-very-short} backend can access the following hosts:

* `login.microsoftonline.com`: For obtaining and exchanging authorization codes and access tokens.

* `graph.microsoft.com`: For retrieving user profile information (as referenced in the source code).
If this host is unreachable, you might see an _Authentication failed, failed to fetch user profile_ error when attempting to log in.
====

Commit message:

Fix inconsistent reference to the app config file

modules/authentication/proc-enabling-authentication-with-microsoft-azure.adoc, after:

[id="enabling-authentication-with-microsoft-azure"]
= Enabling authentication with Microsoft Azure

{product} includes a Microsoft Azure authentication provider that can authenticate users by using OAuth.

.Prerequisites
. You have the permission to register an application in Microsoft Azure.
. You link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/{product-version}/html-single/administration_guide_for_red_hat_developer_hub/index#assembly-add-custom-app-file-openshift_admin-rhdh[added a custom {product-short} application configuration].

.Procedure
. To allow {product-short} to authenticate with Microsoft Azure, link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/scenario-web-app-sign-user-app-registration?tabs=aspnetcore#register-an-app-by-using-the-azure-portal[create an OAuth application in Microsoft Azure].

.. In the Azure portal go to link:https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_AAD_RegisteredApps/ApplicationsListBlade[*App registrations*], create a **New registration** with the configuration:
+
**Name**:: The application name in Azure, such as __<My {product-short}>__.

.. On the *Home > App registrations > __<My {product-short}>__ > Manage > Authentication* page, *Add a platform*, with the following configuration:

*Redirect URI*:: Enter the backend authentication URI set in {product-short}: `pass:c,a,q[{my-product-url}/api/auth/microsoft/handler/frame]`
*Front-channel logout URL*:: Leave blank.
*Implicit grant and hybrid flows*:: Leave all checkboxes cleared.

.. On the *Home > App registrations > __<My {product-short}>__ > Manage > API permissions* page, *Add a Permission*, then add the following *Delegated permission* for the *Microsoft Graph API*:
+
* `email`
* `offline_access`
* `openid`
* `profile`
* `User.Read`
* Optional custom scopes for the Microsoft Graph API that you define both in this section and in the `{my-app-config-file}` {product-short} configuration file.
[NOTE]
====
Your company might require you to grant admin consent for these permissions.
Even if your company does not require admin consent, you might do so as it means users do not need to individually consent the first time they access backstage.
To grant administrator consent, a directory administrator must go to the link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/user-admin-consent-overview[admin consent] page and click *Grant admin consent for COMPANY NAME*.
====


.. On the *Home > App registrations > __<My {product-short}>__ > Manage > Certificates & Secrets* page, in the *Client secrets* tab, create a *New client secret*.

.. Save for the next step:
- **Directory (tenant) ID**
- **Application (client) ID**
- **Application (client) secret**

. To add your Microsoft Azure credentials to {product-short}, add the following key/value pairs to your {product-short} secrets, such as `secrets-rhdh`:
+
`AUTH_AZURE_TENANT_ID`:: Enter your saved *Directory (tenant) ID*.
`AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_ID`:: Enter your saved *Application (client) ID*.
`AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET`:: Enter your saved *Application (client) secret*.

. Set up the Microsoft Azure authentication provider in your `{my-app-config-file}` file:
+
--
.`{my-app-config-file}` file fragment
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----
auth:
  environment: production
  providers:
    microsoft:
      production:
        clientId: ${AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_ID}
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET}
        tenantId: ${AUTH_AZURE_TENANT_ID}
signInPage: microsoft
----

`environment: production`::
Mark the environment as production to hide the **Guest** login in the {product-short} home page.

`clientId`, `clientSecret` and `tenantId`::
Use the {product-short} application information that you have created in Microsoft Azure and configured in OpenShift as secrets.

`signInPage: microsoft`::
Enable the Microsoft Azure provider as default sign-in provider.

Optional: Consider adding following optional fields:

`dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog: true`::
+
To enable authentication without requiring to provision users in the {product-short} software catalog.
+
WARNING: Use `dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog` to explore {product-short} features, but do not use it in production.
+
.`app-config-rhdh.yaml` fragment with optional field to allow authenticating users absent from the software catalog
[source,yaml]
----
auth:
  environment: production
  providers:
    microsoft:
      production:
        clientId: ${AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_ID}
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET}
        tenantId: ${AUTH_AZURE_TENANT_ID}
signInPage: microsoft
dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog: true
----

`domainHint`::
Optional for single-tenant applications.
You can reduce login friction for users with accounts in multiple tenants by automatically filtering out accounts from other tenants.
If you want to use this parameter for a single-tenant application, uncomment and enter the tenant ID.
If your application registration is multi-tenant, leave this parameter blank.
For more information, see link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/home-realm-discovery-policy[Home Realm Discovery].
+
.`{my-app-config-file}` file fragment with optional `domainHint` field
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----
auth:
  environment: production
  providers:
    microsoft:
      production:
        domainHint: ${AUTH_AZURE_TENANT_ID}
----

`additionalScopes`::
Optional for additional scopes.
To add scopes for the application registration, uncomment and enter the list of scopes that you want to add.
The default and mandatory value lists: `'openid', 'offline_access', 'profile', 'email', 'User.Read'`.
+
.`{my-app-config-file}` file fragment with optional `additionalScopes` field
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----
auth:
  environment: production
  providers:
    microsoft:
      production:
        additionalScopes:
           - Mail.Send
----
--

[NOTE]
====
This step is optional for environments with outgoing access restrictions, such as firewall rules.
 If your environment has such restrictions, ensure that your {product-very-short} backend can access the following hosts:

* `login.microsoftonline.com`: For obtaining and exchanging authorization codes and access tokens.

* `graph.microsoft.com`: For retrieving user profile information (as referenced in the source code).
If this host is unreachable, you might see an _Authentication failed, failed to fetch user profile_ error when attempting to log in.
====
